# Green-Governance-
DATA &amp; CODE
Energy legislation serves as an essential tool for promoting the renewable energy transition in different countries. Evaluating the effectiveness of laws and policies is a long-standing research topic that requires a well-designed methodology for both data collection and analysis. Existing studies have already used the number of legal documents adopted as an indicator of government activity in promoting the energy transition. One of the well-known and widely cited sources of knowledge on climate regulations is the Climate Change Laws website, which collects information on legal documents relevant to climate change issues. This database includes information on 196 UNFCCC member countries (as well as 3 non-member territories) and collects basic information on regulatory activity, including documents relating to one of the designated aspects, among which are climate change mitigation, adaptation, and disaster risk management. Documents in the database regulate national and sectoral levels. Importantly, energy legislation is included in the collection even if climate change is not explicitly mentioned in the text of the document. Moreover, the database includes documentation from UNFCCC portals that provide an overview of countries' national activities to address climate change. 
Climate Change Laws provides a number of comparative classifications of documentation. First, the documents are divided according to the branch of government that adopted it, i.e., legislative or executive, and therefore all observations refer to either legislation or policy. Furthermore, the type of document, topic, sector and other characteristics are specified. The existing classifications are key information necessary for creating variables suitable for statistical analysis and econometric modelling.
To include information on a country's legislative activity in the fight against climate change within the energy sector in the research sample, all existing documents in the database should be analyzed to count the number of events, which in this case are the adoption of a legal document. The Climate Change Laws database was used as the basis for the analysis, which at the time of extraction from the official website included 7 310 observations, representing laws and policies. Calculations were performed using code developed in the R programming language. 
First, all legislation and policies not related to the energy sector were excluded from the initial database. To do this, the ‘str_detect’ function was used for the ‘Sector’ variable, which identified all documents containing ‘Energy’, even if the legislation or policy did not regulate only the energy sector. At the same time, using the ‘filter’ function in the variable ‘Category’ only laws and policies (‘Legislative’, ‘Executive’) remained, excluding, for example, UNFCCC country reports. The new database now contains 2 299 observations, which only include energy-related legal documents. Duplicate documents representing the same laws, presented in different languages, were also deleted, leaving 2 045 laws and policies.
Secondly, the obtained database was grouped by country, year and adopted documents using the ‘group_by’ and ‘summarise’ functions. This produced a database containing the countries and years in which the laws and policies were adopted, as well as the number of documents of each type accepted in a given year. Next, using the ‘pivot_wider’ function, laws and policies became independent variables (‘Legislative’, ‘Executive’), the values of which are the number of documents adopted by country and year. Furthermore, the ‘mutate’ function created a variable ‘Total’, which represents the sum of laws and policies. 
Thirdly, unified time intervals were set for the entire sample to obtain the final data sample, and cumulative values were calculated. Initially, a list of all countries was selected using the ‘unique’ function, and the required time interval from 1976 to 2024 was created. Then, using the ‘expand_grid’ function, a basis for the final version of the database was created, where each country is represented by a single time interval from 1976 to 2024, regardless of the actual laws' adoption timing. The year 1976 was chosen because the first laws for the energy sector were adopted at that time, according to the Climate Change Laws database. After that, the latest version of the sample with the number of laws and policies was added to the final database, and all empty values were replaced with zeros. Thus, if a country did not adopt a law, policy, or both in a given year, the corresponding cell will contain ‘0’. Then, using the ‘cumsum’ function, cumulative values were calculated for laws, policies and the total number of documents. Finally, the data was arranged by country and year using the ‘arrange’ function. 
Thus, a sample was obtained containing 9 989 observations for 202 entities from 1976 to 2024 with six variables, namely “Legislative” (number of laws, i.e. documents adopted by the legislative branch in a certain country in a particular year) and “Executive” (number of policies, i.e. documents adopted by the executive branch in a certain country in a particular year), “Total” (the sum of the two previous variables, i.e. documents adopted by the legislative and executive branches in a certain country in a particular year), as well as three cumulative values of the variables described. For further analysis, observations containing the values ‘European Union’, ‘International’, ‘No Geography’ as the country were excluded from the list, leaving 199 territories in the sample with 9 751 observations. 
This methodology provides an indication of countries' legislative activity, as well as information on the number of documents in force in a given year that regulate the energy sector within the framework of climate change mitigation, by calculating cumulative values. Furthermore, the database shows not only a quantitative assessment of all documents, but also an estimate of the number of laws and policies, i.e. the performance of various branches of government.
